Developing novel personalized therapies for cancer is a complex task, hindered by the
 entanglement of cancer pathways, differences in genetic make-up of individual cancers
  and the variety of molecular mechanisms by which cancers can progress.

Overcoming these obstacles requires a systems biology approach in order to integrate high-throughput
 data characterizing cancers as well as experimental models with existing biological knowledge.

To perform such integration, we introduced a new mathematical formalization of
 biological organisms. We model all biological systems as a graph of directly
  interacting molecular entities that carries out distributed computation underlying
   biological processes. Within this model, every function in a biological
    system is associated to an information flow pattern in that graph,
     supported by underlying nodes or edges. Disruption
      of nodes and edges in the network by mutations, copy number variations
       or drugs lead to a perturbation of that flow and hence to the disruption
        or enhancement of functions of interest.

We show that a complete network that complete graph of molecular integration can be build based on the existing repositories
 of biological knowledge. After building a reference open-source implementation of the method,
  we validated our approach on the K14 and TWIST1-associated pathways,
   that were previously reported to drive cancer cell dissemination and metastases in
    mouse and mouse organoids.
Our aim was to prioritize the candidate genes for functional validation, given a large list of potential hits and to identify additional potential targets that might be invisible in one type of data. Both aims were achieved, revealing major information-routing hubs among differentially
 expressed genes in both datasets and connecting them to well-known cancer genes.

We anticipate that this approach could eventually lead to insights into
 treatments personalization and mechanisms of drug resistance emergence
 and are planning to focus our research in this direction.
